So we're gonna do now we're gonna graduate
on to doing more advanced event handlers.
So let's take for instance
the newRestaurant.name that we have here.
For those that don't know V model
is a directive that lets you
automatically update the value of
the input and track it while also
simultaneously checking the input
event and then updating set field.
So to show that in execution here,
what we're gonna do,
actually I'll just put it here.
Restaurant or is it new restaurant,
newRrestaurant.name,
newRestaurant.name, okay?
So here, when we go inside of
restaurants new and I type,
you'll notice that everything's
updated as you want.
But what have we only wanted to update
say like when someone hits the space bar?
Let's just do something
a little bit different.
Well, the way we would actually do this
we would need to hijack what's going on.
So V model now no longer is work because
this is going to capture everything that
we type on it.
So what we're going to do now is we're
gonna break V model up into its two
distinctive parts and that's what
all people don't realize is that,
V model is really just syntactic sugar for
what I'm about to show you.
So first thing first is your basically
essentially binding the value of
the element to this dynamic thing,
newRestaurant.name.
And then what it normally does with the V
model is it also does an input event
that will then basically say, again,
this is a little bit pseudocode, but
event.target.value.
That's like at a high level,
what it's essentially doing,
it is combining all that into one piece.
Making your life a lot easier because
most of the time we're not trying
to hijack the thing, but let's say we
wanna hijack the thing in that we only
wanted to update whenever
we hit the space bar.
So I'll use the update name
function that we're going to call
whenever this is being hit.
So now if we go ahead and
declare update name.
It's a function, and to show that
it works, we're just gonna log.
Hello, all right, so over here
we'll see that when I go ahead and
type, you see that hello
is being triggered.
That works as expected,
but we wanna do something.
We wanna do a little bit more than that.
We wanna actually inspect what's going.
If this is your first time
working with custom events,
what you need to know is that,
when you have this event here,
it's automatically past the event object
as part of its default parameter.
So here what we can do is if I go ahead,
I'm just gonna type out event oftentimes
referred to as E, but I'm gonna type event
and let's log out the event this time.
We'll see now that when we go to New and
type, you see that the input event is
actually being called and this is great
because what this means is we can now
do something with said thing, right?
It has the data, it has whatnot and okay.
So, this is pretty good.
But you'll notice though, actually, the
browser actually giving us a hint already.
But it's not just any event,
it's an input event and so
what we can do right is because right
now if we try to do like event.data it's
not really going to tell us anything
because here's the thing about events.
Is that at least in the primary or
in the form that it's in right now
there's no typing on, it right it's any.
So you might be like, okay, I got this,
I'm gonna call it an event, yeah,
I'm smart and then you're gonna realize,
this is pretty generic.
It's just like this is an event
that takes place in the DOM,
that is essentially the any
events to be totally honest, yes,
you're being descriptive
that it's an event.
But really,
we could use a little bit more help.
And so what we do know is
that it's an input event.
And when you get the input event, now the
magic happens because all the stuff that
you can want to say, yep,
all the properties that come
with that object now suddenly
appeared in your autocomplete.
So we can basically do that, okay,
let's log the data for this for example or
maybe let's see, do they have code?
Maybe code would be better.
Nope, not on this, that's right I
know why that's it but it's fine,
okay, so then here, so we'll log the data.
So we come back in here now
let me clear the console.
Asdf space, okay, great.
So now what did I say?
I said I wanted to assign
it when that happens.
So what we can do is we can say if data,
if event.data is equal to the space
character, then what do we do?
We can say new restaurant.name
is actually a .value.name.
See, it'll get you,
that will be equivalent to event.target.
There you go.
So again,
data itself is not auto completing for
whatever reason, you're thinking
like event that target like,
why is it and I think basically the reason
why we can autocomplete this, all right.
You're not seeing value anywhere is
because TypeScript doesn't know what
event.target is, for whatever reason.
And so what you can do instead though
is you can basically tell that,
you can tell TypeScript by wrapping
your value in a parenthesis,
and using type casting
that is an HTML element.
So your event target you know,
because again you're the one coding this,
you're like, I got this it's not gonna
random and then we get swapped out.
And from here this is where the value
property actually does live here,
so now if we save this and
swap that over then, yay.
Wait, let me clear
the console first space.
Now venue A,
the full value actually does appear.
So here's the thing about the syntax
though is that it takes a little getting
used to because this is not
naturally how we would write it.
Honestly, most of us would expect
to just do event.target.value.
And while technically it'll work.
So let's see expected me
force this real quick.
Okay, so I'm gonna let TypeScript
yell at me for now, this is fine.
That's your boo yo.
Yeah, so it does technically work.
And so this is where I honestly I think
part of the issue sometimes comes in
with when people start opting into
TypeScript very like wholeheartedly.
Is that they get into this weird thing
where they're like, wait, this thing that
I'm used to doing now feels really
awkward like, what am I supposed to do?
Like, I guess I can.
If event.target.value exists, then log
this, but then it's like, okay, well,
it's still saying that event target might
be knows, maybe I should get rid of that.
But then it's like, well, event.target
could be any, so you see that like type is
kind of going like,
I don't know what it's supposed to be.
And so that's why typically,
then you would just yeah, so
we would just wrap this and then say as
HTML input element, and now it's happy.
And so now we can take this
whole thing and drop that here.
And now that we have that we can go
ahead new name.value, this is great.
So once again, we can test this by going,
if we don't hit the space at all and
just say like, then website create.
Nothing's happened because it never got
assigned me just delete that now or
it can actually wipe that out.
I do bend space you see that it got
assigned up here test recommend create,
now it's actually a sign.
Assigning credit correctly.
So, again hijacking events can be a little
bit tricky but because you can typecast if
you, again if you're telling types with
what it's going to be, it is nice to
because once, again it's easy to
forget what you're putting things on.
So ultimately, it is a basically a way for
you to document what your intentions are,
how it's supposed to work.
And then people can a lot more
easily come into this update name,
in case it's buggy in the future and go,
okay, this is what I'm kind of looking
at without even looking at the template.
They can already do
a lot of work from that.